SDK tutorial: turn into MD file (#31409)
project-chip/connectedhomeip: docs/getting_started/SDKBasics.md

![](img/SDK_layers.png)

### Platform Layer

Platform layer implements the connection to the network stack and the base OS.
Messages flow off the wire into the platform layer, where they are routed into
the platform API for processing by the Matter stack.

### Platform API

The platform API defines a common layer to interact with the core.

### Core

Core encompasses a huge part of the spec, including all of the the underlying
communication protocols. The goal of the core code is to deliver valid messages
to the ember layer indicating the cluster request and associated endpoint
information.

### Ember

The ember layer is a generated layer that implements the composition of ONE
SPECIFIC device. It looks at each message and determines if the device has
implemented the selected attribute or command on the cluster on the selected
endpoint, and then blocks or routes accordingly, based on the implementation and
the access control.

Valid requests are forwarded on to the cluster implementations to handle and
invalid requests get sent back with an error. Ember layer is the piece that
makes your device your device. Most are generated statically using zap.

### Cluster implementations

> The cluster implementations are the core logic that back the cluster. The

Reviewer: Just a thought when reading this, but since "core" is already a defined section, maybe we should not reuse the term here?

Author: removed the word core.

cluster implementation code receives messages from the ember layer to request

> data model operations on the cluster (reads / writes / commands). They are also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
data model operations on the cluster (reads / writes / command invokes). They are also
```

Author: fixed manually.

> responsible for even generation and attribute change reporting. Simple cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
responsible for event generation and attribute change reporting. Simple cluster
```

logic can be written in the ember callback functions, but more complex cluster
logic is handled in the run-time installed interface layers.

## SDK Organization (some key bits)

> -   docs

Reviewer: It is a bit inconsistent with starting with either upper or lower case, a bit nit-picky I know.

Author: These all start lower case because these are directory names.

    -   [docs/guides/BUILDING\.md](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/blob/master/docs/guides/BUILDING.md) -
        follow this first
    -   [docs/guides/chip_tool_guide.md](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/blob/master/docs/guides/chip_tool_guide.md) -

>         good! …and up to date

Reviewer: Should we drop the "good! …and up to date", given that could change in the future? 😅

Author: removed.
